# Simple URL Shortener

## Description of the project
This project is a simple URL shortener app. It is composed of a REST API built with Django and the Django REST Framework.

A web interface was recently  added to interact with the REST API, and generate new short URL. It will soon list all the short URLs generated by the user.

An iOS App (built with Swift) allows the user to generate a short URL, stores a list of the previously generated short URLs.

## Django Server
Currently the Django Server works with 2 URLs:
- < domain_name >/api/ + json{real_url: < the url of the website >, username: < optional username >}: this post method generates a new short code.
- < domain_name >/< short_code > === < short_url >: redirect the user to the URL linked with the matched short_code

We generate short code by randomizing 6 numbers in base 62 (ascii letters in lowercase + uppercase + numbers). Once a short code is generated, we test if this short code is already in the database. If so, then we generate another short code, if not, then we return that short code and build the association in the database between the short code and the real URL.

## iOS App
This iOS app is built in Swift 3 for iOS 10. 
It is using a tab-based template:
- Url Shortener: generates a new short URL
- Short Urls: list of all short URL generated by this app

By default, the port used by Django will be 8000, this port is configured in *ShortenerViewController*. When the user generates a short URL, it is automatically stored on the iPhone, with the real URL, and printed in the short URLs list.
The app has not yet been tested on a real device, with the server configured to use port 80.

## Installation
To run the server, you need to have Python 3, Django and Django REST Framework installed.
Then in urlShortenerServer/ run:
- python3 manage.py makemigrations
- python3 manage.py migrate
- python3 manage.py runserver


